# Contemporary Issues In Data

This document discusses some contemporary issues related to databases or data in general. Two relevant articles in news are chosen and reviewed, and a theme is identified for each article chosen. Personal response to each article is also included. 

## Article 1: Data collection, privacy, and users' knowledge

In WIRED `[All the Data Apple Collects About You—and How to Limit It]`(https://www.wired.com/story/apple-privacy-data-collection/), how data collection is changing in Apple as it increases the advertising businesses and how users might be impacted is discussed. Apple, as a company that claims to only collect minimum data from users and put privacy as the top priority for its users, still have to collect more data from users in order to raise more revenues from delivering the ads in a more efficient way. This article actually raises an important question pertaining to data collection by tech companies: users tend to have limited knowledge and awareness about what data is collected, how this might impact their user experience, and how they can limit the data collection if they want.

As a loyal customer of Apple, I have to admit that I also have very limited knowledge about the data collection by Apple and impacts on myself. Whenever there is a permission to data collection pops up, I clicked yes without reading all the terms because they are hard to read and also because I just want to quickly get start with the new services or apps without "wasting" my time. I believe the way I behave is representative of the majority of users when facing the similar situation. Therefore, as data collection is important to a tech company's revenues and it is also user's important interests to know more about how their data will be used, a more straightforward and effective way to let users learn about the data collection in a quick manner should be developed by tech company. I believe raising users' awareness and knowledge about data collection is a central contemporary topic in the field of big data.

## Article 2: Privacy in the age of big tech

In VentureBeat `[Big tech vs. data privacy: It wasn’t meant to be this way]`(https://venturebeat.com/datadecisionmakers/big-tech-vs-data-privacy-it-wasnt-meant-to-be-this-way/), threats to users' privacy are pointed out and some future directions are mentioned. This article raises an important point regarding the privacy issue in the age of big tech where various tech companies create a detailed profiles of each user by collecting and using abundant data from the users. Such action would definitely benefit the company, because the data collected will be accurately reflective of users' needs and preference, and the company would be able to match these with the services and advertisements to make profits. However, due to the rapid development of data collection and manipulation, the concept of privacy needs to be updated and revised. For example, how the tech companies guarantee the confidentiality of the data of users in the long future after the data is already collected, even if the data is currently well protected. 

The protection of privacy of users' data is not only the question for tech company but it also involves many other stakeholders, including the academia and the policy makers. As from what I learned from the Responsible Data Science class, data leakage can be present even if no obvious identifiable information is shared by jointly connecting different datasets or databases. As a result, an individual might be identified, and that user's privacy is invaded. Therefore, I highly agree with the point mentioned in this article regarding updating the whole paradigm of privacy and data, from the theory to research, and finally to practice. With the rapid development of technology that can provide users with better services and experiences, protection of privacy should also be continuously improved to make the tech products reliable and safe for users. 